1. What is the IP address and TCP port number used by the client computer (source) that is transferring the file to gaia.cs.umass.edu? To answer this question, it’s
probably easiest to select an HTTP message and explore the details of the TCP packet used to carry this HTTP message, using the “details of the selected packet
header window” (refer to Figure 2 in the “Getting Started with Wireshark” Lab if you’re uncertain about the Wireshark windows.

IP adresa: 192.168.1.102 Port: 1161

2. What is the IP address of gaia.cs.umass.edu? On what port number is it sending and receiving TCP segments for this connection?

IP adresa: 128.119.245.12 Port: 80

3. What is the IP address and TCP port number used by your client computer (source) to transfer the file to gaia.cs.umass.edu?

IP adresa: 192.168.56.1 Port: 52312

4. What is the sequence number of the TCP SYN segment that is used to initiate the TCP connection between the client computer and gaia.cs.umass.edu? What is it
in the segment that identifies the segment as a SYN segment?

Seq. number: 0  SYN flag: 0x002

5. What is the sequence number of the SYNACK segment sent by gaia.cs.umass.edu to the client computer in reply to the SYN? What is the value of the
Acknowledgement field in the SYNACK segment? How did gaia.cs.umass.edu determine that value? What is it in the segment that identifies the segment as a
SYNACK segment?

Seq. number: 0  SYN, ACK flag: 0x012

6. What is the sequence number of the TCP segment containing the HTTP POST command? Note that in order to find the POST command, you’ll need to dig into
the packet content field at the bottom of the Wireshark window, looking for a segment with a “POST” within its DATA field.

Seq. number: 1, POST

7. Consider the TCP segment containing the HTTP POST as the first segment in the TCP connection. What are the sequence numbers of the first six segments in the
TCP connection (including the segment containing the HTTP POST)? At what time was each segment sent? When was the ACK for each segment received?
Given the difference between when each TCP segment was sent, and when its acknowledgement was received, what is the RTT value for each of the six
segments? What is the EstimatedRTT value (see Section 3.5.3, page 242 in text) after the receipt of each ACK? Assume that the value of the
EstimatedRTT is equal to the measured RTT for the first segment, and then is computed using the EstimatedRTT equation on page 242 for all subsequent
segments. Note: Wireshark has a nice feature that allows you to plot the RTT for each of the TCP segments sent. Select a TCP segment in the “listing of
captured packets” window that is being sent from the client to the gaia.cs.umass.edu server. Then select: Statistics->TCP Stream Graph- >Round Trip Time Graph.

cca 0,1

8. What is the length of each of the first six TCP segments?

     1.   565
     2.   1460
     3.   1460
     4.   1460
     5.   1460
     6.   1460

9. What is the minimum amount of available buffer space advertised at the received for the entire trace? Does the lack of receiver buffer space ever throttle the
sender?

fragment 2, window 5840 -> hodnota >= 5840

10. Are there any retransmitted segments in the trace file? What did you check for (in the trace) in order to answer this question?

11. How much data does the receiver typically acknowledge in an ACK? Can you identify cases where the receiver is ACKing every other received segment (see
Table 3.2 on page 250 in the text).

12. What is the throughput (bytes transferred per unit time) for the TCP connection? Explain how you calculated this value.

13., 14. Use the Time-Sequence-Graph(Stevens) plotting tool to view the sequence number versus time plot of segments being sent from the client to the
gaia.cs.umass.edu server. Can you identify where TCP’s slowstart phase begins and ends, and where congestion avoidance takes over? Comment on ways in
which the measured data differs from the idealized behavior of TCP that we’ve studied in the text.

slow start (schody)
congestion avoidance (jeden schod)





